[DOCS] Adds conceptual docs about multiple NLP model deployments (#2400)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/nlp/ml-nlp-deploy-models.asciidoc

--------------------------------------------------
--

[[ml-nlp-deploy-model]]
== Deploy the model in your cluster

After you import the model and vocabulary, you can use {kib} to view and manage
their deployment across your cluster under **{ml-app}** > *Model Management*.
Alternatively, you can use the
{ref}/start-trained-model-deployment.html[start trained model deployment API].

> You can deploy a model multiple times by assigning a unique deployment ID to 
> each deployment. It enables you to have dedicated deployments for different 
> purposes, such as search and ingest. By doing so, you ensure that the search 
> speed remains unaffected by ingest volume, and vice versa. Having separate 
> deployments for search and ingest mitigates performance issues resulting from 
> interactions between the two, which can be hard to diagnose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy a model multiple times by assigning a unique deployment ID when starting
the deployment. It enables you to have dedicated deployments for different 
purposes, such as search and ingest. By doing so, you ensure that the search 
speed remains unaffected by ingest workloads, and vice versa. Having separate 
deployments for search and ingest mitigates performance issues resulting from 
interactions between the two, which can be hard to diagnose.
```

Reviewer: Plus can we add something about how the queue works

## Inference Request Queues
Every allocation of a model deployment has a dedicated queue to buffer inference requests. The size of this queue is controlled by the queue_capacity parameter to the start model deployment API. Once the queue is full any new requests will be rejected until some of the queued requests have been processed and there is capacity once again. Where multiple ingest pipelines reference the same model deployment it is possible for the queue to fill up resulting in rejected requests. Consider using dedicated deployments in this situation. 
 
Inference requests originating from search such as the text_expansion query or the query_vector_builder option in knn search are prioritised over non search requests.  The inference ingest processor creates normal priority requests, if a search query and ingest processor are using the same model deployment the higher priority search requests skip to the front of the queue to be processed before the lower priority ingest requests. This makes search responses lively while slowing down ingest where response time is not critical.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/ml-nlp-deployment-id.png["Model deployment on the Trained Models UI."]

It is recommended to fine-tune each deployment based on its specific purpose. To 
improve ingest performance, increase throughput by adding more allocations to 
the deployment. For improved search speed, increase the number of threads per 

> allocation.

Reviewer: Can we add a section on the deployment queues

## Inference request queues

Each allocation of a model deployment has a dedicated queue to buffer inference requests. The size of this queue is controlled by the queue_capacity parameter on the start model deployment API. Once the queue is full any new requests will be rejected until a queued request has been processed freeing capacity in the queue. If multiple ingest pipelines are using the deployment it is possible the queue will fill in which case consider using multiple deployments, increasing the queue capacity or when using bulk upload send a small number of documents at a time.

Inference requests originating from search such as the text_expansion query or the query_vector_builder option in knn search have a higher priority and skip to the front of the queue to be processed before any lower priority requests. The inference ingest processor creates normal priority requests, if the queue contains inference requests from ingest the search requests will be processed first, this makes search response lively at the expense of slowing down ingest which is not a time critical operation. This behaviour is designed to give the best performance where a single deployment is used for both search and ingest as an alternative to creating a dedicated deployment for each.

{ref}/update-trained-model-deployment.html[update trained model stats API] after
the allocation status is `started`.

[discrete]
[[infer-request-queues]]
=== {infer-cap} request queues

Each allocation of a model deployment has a dedicated queue to buffer {infer} 

> requests. The size of this queue is determined by the `queue_capacity parameter` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requests. The size of this queue is determined by the `queue_capacity` parameter
```

in the 
{ref}/start-trained-model-deployment.html[start trained model deployment API]. 
When the queue reaches its maximum capacity, new requests are declined until 
some of the queued requests are processed, creating available capacity once 
again. When multiple ingest pipelines reference the same deployment, the queue 
can fill up, resulting in rejected requests. Consider using dedicated 
deployments to prevent this situation.

> {infer-cap} requests originating from search, such as the `text_expansion` 

Reviewer: Maybe link to the text_expansion docs

> query, receive higher priority compared to non-search requests. The {infer} 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
query, receive a higher priority compared to non-search requests. The {infer} 
```

"receive higher priority" doesn't sound right. maybe plain "have a higher priority"
